README.md, before:

# Employee Reviews & Compensation

## 1. Intent
As the general intent, we'd like to pay people fairly and appropriately for their work in helping to build NOCTEM. We also believe that reflection is an essential part of growth and want to create ongoing opportunities to consider the following:
* How does my work contribute to NOCTEM's success at this point in time?
* How could this change in the future?
* What do I want?
* What do I need to get there?

## 2. Reviews
At least once per year, your contributions will be evaluated in the context of your [level](#developer-levels) (i.e. Entry, Mid, Senior, Principal)

This evaluation will include a peer review (confidential but not anonymous); it is our belief that great contributions do not happen in a bubble - work happens in the context of our team and it is important to always mind where it comes from and where it goes.

For your review, please come prepared to advocate for your performance in either your current level or to make a case for "leveling-up". Also be prepared to share expectations and how they were met or not met.
 
After [discussion](#discussion-items) and sharing the aggregated themes from your [peer review](#peer-review-questions), we'll ask that you take a few days to reflect then share the points & themes that were most salient to you via email.

We'll then meet to finalize next steps - concluding with a written summary as well as a checklist to track development opportunities over time.
 
For now, Anne & I will schedule these and are very much open to doing them on request also.

## 3. Compensation
Given that we are a pre-Series A startup and that everyone's compensation is a combination of salary, equity, and benefits; raises will be awarded in recognition of performance over time but it is our intent that they be substantial, less-frequent, and aligned with the company's cash position. These raises will be in the form of either cash, equity, or some combination of each.
 
Anne & I would like compensation to be an ongoing dialog; please be prepared for this.
 
In the future, we will budget for raises explicitly and be transparent around their availability.

## 4. Discussion Items, Peer Review Questions, and Developer Levels

### Discussion Items
During your review, we'd like to discuss the following:

* What's the coolest thing you've done at NOCTEM since your last review? What are you most proud of?
* What kind of work would you like to do more of?
* Less of?
* What do you think our team's greatest challenge is currently?
* What do you like most about working at NOCTEM?
* Least?
* Are there any expectations that were set by us that were not met?
* What do you want?
* What do you need to get there?
* What’s next?

### Peer Review Questions
On a scale from 1 to 10 - 1 being least and 10 being the most - how likely are you to agree with the following statements about _<your peer>_?

_Group 1_
* They know what needs to be done and are proactive about taking on work in their space.
* They need work to be assigned to them.

_Group 2_
* Their understanding of company priorities is clear by how they choose to spend their time.
* They mostly work on the items that are either easy or interesting to them at the time.

_Group 3_
* They totally "own" the outcomes of their work.
* They do what they say they'll do.
* They are quick to start new projects before finishing others.

_Group 4_
* Others come to them for help.
* Others come to them for direction.
* They are a good person to bounce ideas off of.
* Their advice is mostly helpful.
* They listen to me.

_Group 5_
* They often need help.
* They have mastered the tools needed to do their job.
* They have mastered the basics of their areas of expertise.
* They tend to solve problems completely and for the future - not just for the present.

_Group 6_
* They are capable of working-through a longer problem with a multi-step solution.
* They are most effective solving smaller problems over short periods of time.

_Group 7_
* They communicate the details of their work at an appropriate level to their audience.
* They have difficulty explaining their work to others outside their areas of expertise.

_Group 8_
* They are trustworthy.
* I trust them.

_Group 9_
* I would highly recommend working with them.
* They can be sometimes challenging to work with.


### Developer Levels
#### Entry
* First or second job as a developer
* Basic understanding of the company’s tech stack; believable to be able to complete smaller tasks unassisted e.g. bug fixes, component or feature modifications

#### Mid
* Experience working as a software developer
* Experience working on a team
* Comprehensive understanding of the company’s tech stack; believable to independently develop new application components or features

#### Senior
* Experience working as a software developer
* Experience working on a team in a technical leadership role incl. an SME, project lead
* Experience training & coaching other developers
* Designs solutions that align well to company goals and that minimize future technical debt
* Complete understanding of the company’s tech stack with a demonstrated ability to troubleshoot complex technical issues throughout. Believable to lead larger technical initiatives (e.g. that span multiple sprints)

#### Principal
* Experience working on a team in a technical leadership role
* Experience training & coaching developers
* Experience leading technical incubation projects (tech. that has a new revenue stream associated with it); believable to work well with product, customer success, sales, and marketing teams
* Trusted to represent the company externally - in both technical & business communities; believable to attract technical talent
* Complete understanding of not just the company’s tech stack but the developer landscape generally and its trajectories; trusted to set the technical direction of the company from a development perspective

Commit message:

Added clarification to why the peer review questions are grouped.

README.md, after:

# Employee Reviews & Compensation

## 1. Intent
As the general intent, we'd like to pay people fairly and appropriately for their work in helping to build NOCTEM. We also believe that reflection is an essential part of growth and want to create ongoing opportunities to consider the following:
* How does my work contribute to NOCTEM's success at this point in time?
* How could this change in the future?
* What do I want?
* What do I need to get there?

## 2. Reviews
At least once per year, your contributions will be evaluated in the context of your [level](#developer-levels) (i.e. Entry, Mid, Senior, Principal)

This evaluation will include a peer review (confidential but not anonymous); it is our belief that great contributions do not happen in a bubble - work happens in the context of our team and it is important to always mind where it comes from and where it goes.

For your review, please come prepared to advocate for your performance in either your current level or to make a case for "leveling-up". Also be prepared to share expectations and how they were met or not met.
 
After [discussion](#discussion-items) and sharing the aggregated themes from your [peer review](#peer-review-questions), we'll ask that you take a few days to reflect then share the points & themes that were most salient to you via email.

We'll then meet to finalize next steps - concluding with a written summary as well as a checklist to track development opportunities over time.
 
For now, Anne & I will schedule these and are very much open to doing them on request also.

## 3. Compensation
Given that we are a pre-Series A startup and that everyone's compensation is a combination of salary, equity, and benefits; raises will be awarded in recognition of performance over time but it is our intent that they be substantial, less-frequent, and aligned with the company's cash position. These raises will be in the form of either cash, equity, or some combination of each.
 
Anne & I would like compensation to be an ongoing dialog; please be prepared for this.
 
In the future, we will budget for raises explicitly and be transparent around their availability.

## 4. Discussion Items, Peer Review Questions, and Developer Levels

### Discussion Items
During your review, we'd like to discuss the following:

* What's the coolest thing you've done at NOCTEM since your last review? What are you most proud of?
* What kind of work would you like to do more of?
* Less of?
* What do you think our team's greatest challenge is currently?
* What do you like most about working at NOCTEM?
* Least?
* Are there any expectations that were set by us that were not met?
* What do you want?
* What do you need to get there?
* What’s next?

### Peer Review Questions
On a scale from 1 to 10 - 1 being least and 10 being the most - how likely are you to agree with the following statements about _your peer_?

Although presented randomly to the reviewer, the following questions are grouped by theme; to avoid ambiguity, most are asked in multiple or opposite ways:

_Group 1_
* They know what needs to be done and are proactive about taking on work in their space.
* They need work to be assigned to them.

_Group 2_
* Their understanding of company priorities is clear by how they choose to spend their time.
* They mostly work on the items that are either easy or interesting to them at the time.

_Group 3_
* They totally "own" the outcomes of their work.
* They do what they say they'll do.
* They are quick to start new projects before finishing others.

_Group 4_
* Others come to them for help.
* Others come to them for direction.
* They are a good person to bounce ideas off of.
* Their advice is mostly helpful.
* They listen to me.

_Group 5_
* They often need help.
* They have mastered the tools needed to do their job.
* They have mastered the basics of their areas of expertise.
* They tend to solve problems completely and for the future - not just for the present.

_Group 6_
* They are capable of working-through a longer problem with a multi-step solution.
* They are most effective solving smaller problems over short periods of time.

_Group 7_
* They communicate the details of their work at an appropriate level to their audience.
* They have difficulty explaining their work to others outside their areas of expertise.

_Group 8_
* They are trustworthy.
* I trust them.

_Group 9_
* I would highly recommend working with them.
* They can be sometimes challenging to work with.


### Developer Levels
#### Entry
* First or second job as a developer
* Basic understanding of the company’s tech stack; believable to be able to complete smaller tasks unassisted e.g. bug fixes, component or feature modifications

#### Mid
* Experience working as a software developer
* Experience working on a team
* Comprehensive understanding of the company’s tech stack; believable to independently develop new application components or features

#### Senior
* Experience working as a software developer
* Experience working on a team in a technical leadership role incl. an SME, project lead
* Experience training & coaching other developers
* Designs solutions that align well to company goals and that minimize future technical debt
* Complete understanding of the company’s tech stack with a demonstrated ability to troubleshoot complex technical issues throughout. Believable to lead larger technical initiatives (e.g. that span multiple sprints)

#### Principal
* Experience working on a team in a technical leadership role
* Experience training & coaching developers
* Experience leading technical incubation projects (tech. that has a new revenue stream associated with it); believable to work well with product, customer success, sales, and marketing teams
* Trusted to represent the company externally - in both technical & business communities; believable to attract technical talent
* Complete understanding of not just the company’s tech stack but the developer landscape generally and its trajectories; trusted to set the technical direction of the company from a development perspective
